cases/DIVD-2020-00003.md, before:

---
layout: case
title: DIVD-2020-00003 - Microsoft RDP Gateway vulnerable for Bluegate RCE 
divd: DIVD-2020-00003
short: Exploits available for MS RDP Gateway Bluegate
author: Barry van Kampen
excerpt: 16 duizend kwetsbare Microsoft RDP Gateway systemen online / 16 thousand vulnerable Microsoft RDP Gateway systemen online
redirect_from:
  - /DIVD-2020-00003/
---

| Our reference | [{{ page.divd }}](/{{ page.divd }}) |
| Case lead | Barry van Kampen |
| CVE(s) | [CVE-2020-0609](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-CVE-2020-0609) [CVE-2020-0610](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-CVE-2020-0610) |
| Products | Microsoft Windows Server 2012, 2012R2, 2016 and 2019 with Remote Desktop Gateway|
| Versions | N/A |
| Patches | Patch Tuesday 2020-01, [CVE-2020-0609](https://portal.msrc.microsoft.com/en-US/security-guidance/advisory/CVE-2020-0609) and [CVE-2020-0610](https://portal.msrc.microsoft.com/en-US/security-guidance/advisory/CVE-2020-0610) |
| Workaround | Superceeded by patch |
| Recommendation | Apply patches of Patch Tuesday January 2020 NOW! |

### Update 27-1-2020 17:50

## Samenvatting

In onze scan's zijn er ruim 16 duizend kwetsbare Microsoft RDP Gateway servers online gevonden, 1137 van deze systemen komen uit Nederland.

Inmiddels is er een Proof Of Concept van de exploit uit waarbij een aanvaller in staat is een systeem over te nemen.

Er is een grote waarschijnlijkheid dat de kwetsbaarheid misbruikt gaat worden door kwaadwillenden.

## Wat kun u doen?

We raden iedereen aan de volgende overweging te maken:
* Voer de patches van Microsoft Patch Tuesday van januari 2020 uit
* Indien patches niet uitgevoerd kunnen worden om redenen, plaats de server niet direct aan het internet en gebruik bijvoorbeeld een VPN (creëer Defence In Depth)

## Wat doen wij?

Wij zijn op dit moment bezig de lijst met kwetsbare systemen te verwerken en gaan daarna proberen alle partijen in te lichten.

## Timeline

| Date  | Description |
|:-----:|-------------|
| 14-1-2020 | Microsoft Patch Tuesday publiceert patches voor kwetsbaarheden CVE-2020-0609 en CVE-2020-0610|
| 27-1-2020 | POC waarmee systeem kan worden overgenomen [aangekondigd](https://twitter.com/layle_ctf/status/1221514332049113095) |
| 27-1-2020 | Er wordt gestart met informeren van Nederlandse systeem eigenaren |

![A picture of a a blue and red gate in the sea](/assets/images/bluegate_small.png "Image copyright Scopio")

<hr>

## Summary

Scans showed 16 thousand vulnerable systems online, 1137 of these systems are Dutch.

Since a POC video has been release we are assuming others with bad intentions are able to reproduce the POC as-well.

There is a large chance systems will be attacked shortly.

## What you can do

recommend taking these steps:
* Patch systems
* If patching is not possible implement Defence in Depth, for example by adding a VPN in front of the servers

## What we are doing

We are currently processing the list of vulnerable RDP Gateway servers identified in our scanning and will try to inform all affected parties.

## Timeline

| Date  | Description |
|:-----:|-------------|
| 14-1-2020 | Microsoft Patch Tuesday announced fixes for vulnerabilities CVE-2020-0609 and CVE-2020-0610 |
| 27-1-2020 | POC for RCE is [announced](https://twitter.com/layle_ctf/status/1221514332049113095) |
| 27-1-2020 | Start informing Dutch vulnerable system owners |

Commit message:

New blog and restart advice

cases/DIVD-2020-00003.md, after:

---
layout: case
title: DIVD-2020-00003 - Microsoft RDP Gateway vulnerable for Bluegate RCE 
divd: DIVD-2020-00003
short: Exploits available for MS RDP Gateway Bluegate
author: Barry van Kampen
excerpt: 16 duizend kwetsbare Microsoft RDP Gateway systemen online / 16 thousand vulnerable Microsoft RDP Gateway systemen online
redirect_from:
  - /DIVD-2020-00003/
---

| Our reference | [{{ page.divd }}]({{ page.divd }}) |
| Case lead | Barry van Kampen |
| CVE(s) | [CVE-2020-0609](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-CVE-2020-0609) [CVE-2020-0610](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-CVE-2020-0610) |
| Products | Microsoft Windows Server 2012, 2012R2, 2016 and 2019 with Remote Desktop Gateway|
| Versions | N/A |
| Patches | Patch Tuesday 2020-01, [CVE-2020-0609](https://portal.msrc.microsoft.com/en-US/security-guidance/advisory/CVE-2020-0609) and [CVE-2020-0610](https://portal.msrc.microsoft.com/en-US/security-guidance/advisory/CVE-2020-0610) |
| Workaround | Superceeded by patch |
| Recommendation | Apply patches of Patch Tuesday January 2020 NOW! |

### Update 29-1-2020 16:30

## Samenvatting

In onze scan's zijn er ruim 16 duizend kwetsbare Microsoft RDP Gateway servers online gevonden, 1137 van deze systemen komen uit Nederland.

Inmiddels is er een Proof Of Concept van de exploit uit waarbij een aanvaller in staat is een systeem over te nemen.

Er is een grote waarschijnlijkheid dat de kwetsbaarheid misbruikt gaat worden door kwaadwillenden.

## Wat kun u doen?

We raden iedereen aan de volgende overweging te maken:
* Voer de patches van Microsoft Patch Tuesday van januari 2020 uit
* Hoewel in de beschrijving staat dat de patch geen reboot vereist, raden wij aan het systeem, of op zijn minst de windows service, te [herstarten](/2020/01/29/BlueGate-patch-restart/).
* Indien patches niet uitgevoerd kunnen worden om redenen, plaats de server niet direct aan het internet en gebruik bijvoorbeeld een VPN (creëer Defence In Depth)

## Wat doen wij?

Wij zijn op dit moment bezig de lijst met kwetsbare systemen te verwerken en gaan daarna proberen alle partijen in te lichten.

## Timeline

| Date  | Description |
|:-----:|-------------|
| 14-1-2020 | Microsoft Patch Tuesday publiceert patches voor kwetsbaarheden CVE-2020-0609 en CVE-2020-0610|
| 27-1-2020 | POC waarmee systeem kan worden overgenomen [aangekondigd](https://twitter.com/layle_ctf/status/1221514332049113095) |
| 27-1-2020 | Er wordt gestart met informeren van Nederlandse systeem eigenaren |
| 29-1-2020 | Advies voor mvbt [herstarten](/2020/01/29/BlueGate-patch-restart/) toegevoegd |

![A picture of a a blue and red gate in the sea](/assets/images/bluegate_small.png "Image copyright Scopio")

<hr>

## Summary

Scans showed 16 thousand vulnerable systems online, 1137 of these systems are Dutch.

Since a POC video has been release we are assuming others with bad intentions are able to reproduce the POC as-well.

There is a large chance systems will be attacked shortly.

## What you can do

recommend taking these steps:
* Patch systems
*  Even tought the patch release notes indicate that a reboot is not required, we advise you to restart the system or at the very least [restart the Remote Desktop service](/2020/01/29/BlueGate-patch-restart/).
* If patching is not possible implement Defence in Depth, for example by adding a VPN in front of the servers

## What we are doing

We are currently processing the list of vulnerable RDP Gateway servers identified in our scanning and will try to inform all affected parties.

## Timeline

| Date  | Description |
|:-----:|-------------|
| 14-1-2020 | Microsoft Patch Tuesday announced fixes for vulnerabilities CVE-2020-0609 and CVE-2020-0610 |
| 27-1-2020 | POC for RCE is [announced](https://twitter.com/layle_ctf/status/1221514332049113095) |
| 27-1-2020 | Start informing Dutch vulnerable system owners |
| 29-1-2020 | Added advice to [restart after patching](/2020/01/29/BlueGate-patch-restart/) |
